---
title: Data Seeding - EF Core
author: AndriySvyryd
ms.author: divega

ms.date: 02/23/2018

ms.assetid: 3154BF3C-1749-4C60-8D51-AE86773AA116
ms.technology: entity-framework-core

uid: core/modeling/data-seeding
---
# Data Seeding

> [!NOTE]  
> This feature is new in EF Core 2.1.

Data seeding allows to provide initial data to populate a database. Unlike in EF6, in EF Core, seeding data is associated with an entity type as part of the model configuration. Then EF Core [migrations](xref:core/managing-schemas/migrations/index) can automatically compute what insert, update or delete operations need to be applied when upgrading the database to a new version of the model.

As an example, you can use this to configure seed data for a `Blog` in `OnModelCreating`:

[!code-csharp[Main](../../../samples/core/DataSeeding/DataSeedingContext.cs?name=BlogSeed)]

To add entities that have a relationship the foreign key values need to be specified. Frequently the foreign key properties are in shadow state, so to be able to set the values an anonymous class should be used:

[!code-csharp[Main](../../../samples/core/DataSeeding/DataSeedingContext.cs?name=PostSeed)]

Once entities have been added, it is recommended to use [migrations](xref:core/managing-schemas/migrations/index) to apply changes. 

Alternatively, you can use `context.Database.EnsureCreated()` to create a new database containing the seed data, for example for a test database or when using the in-memory provider. Note that if the database already exists, `EnsureCreated()` will neither update the schema nor the seed data in the database.

This type of seed data is managed by migrations and the script to update the data that's already in the database needs to be generated without connecting to the database. This imposes some restrictions:
* The primary key value needs to be specified even if it's usually generated by the database
* Any changes to the seed data done outside of migrations will be lost if the primary key is changed in any way

Therefore this feature is most useful for static data that's not expected to change outside of migrations and doesn't depend on anything else in the database.

If you need to seed temporary data for testing, complex data that depends on database state or data that uses alternate keys as identity it is recommended to add the seeding logic to the application start up method.

For example in an ASP.NET Core application you could modify the Main method in this way:
``` csharp
public static void Main(string[] args)
{
    var host = CreateWebHostBuilder(args).Build();
    using (var scope = host.Services.CreateScope())
    {
        using (var context = scope.ServiceProvider.GetService<DataSeedingContext>())
        {
            var testBlog = context.Blogs.FirstOrDefault(b => b.Url == "http://test.com");
            if (testBlog == null)
            {
                context.Blogs.Add(new Blog { Url = "http://test.com" });
            }
            context.SaveChanges();
        }
    }
    host.Run();
}
```
